# MOBILE DEVICE SECURITY

# Security Tips for Your Devices

## No Credit Card Numbers
Many times, it seems convenient to store credit card numbers on your phone, so you have them at your fingertips. You don’t necessarily have to rely on your memory. But just as it is easy for you to access these numbers, it is easy for someone who means harm to access them. If you must store this information on your phone, you need to ensure the data is safeguarded through tokenization, password locking, and/or encryption.

## Lock Phones and Computer Devices
Enabling a lock on your phone when not in use and a pin or password to unlock the phone will help prevent unauthorized use of the phone. If you set a password on your phone, it is crucial to create a strong password. Remember these tips when creating your password:
- Use a unique password for each account. Do not use one password for all of them.
- Ensure your password consists of letters, numbers, and symbols, which makes it harder for others to figure out.
- Avoid using common words or consecutive characters to make up your password (e.g., do not use “password” as your password and do not use a password such as Office111).

## No Personalized Contacts Listed
Zackary created a lock on his phone and regularly locks it when it’s not in use. He quickly steps away from his desk and forgets to lock it. John doesn’t have permission to touch Zackary’s phone and he decides to go through your contact list. John sees the name Bob Jones with “ABC Company Manager” in parentheses. John writes down Bob’s name and number and uses the information to solicit Bob’s business.  
This is one scenario of what can happen when your phone includes a personalized contact list. In this example, the result, while uncomfortable, is not an extreme situation. It could have been much, much worse.

## Keep Your USBs Close and Your Phone Closer
Reduce the risk of losing these small devices by keeping them close. Putting your USB on your keychain or lanyard is better than letting it rattle around in the bottom of your bag or briefcase. Never leave your devices unattended while in public, and keep your phone on or near you at all times.

## Enable Passwords, Biometrics & Encryption
Enable the password feature on any portable device; if the device offers biometric access (like fingerprint or facial identification), use that, too. Removable storage devices can be easily encrypted, which means everything on them is essentially unreadable to anyone who doesn’t have information to access them. These simple processes can vary depending on your operating system’s built-in tools. You can also purchase pre-encrypted storage devices.

## Reduce Your Use of Public Wi-Fi
Experienced hackers can easily intercept data transmitted over a public Wi-Fi network. Some fraudsters will even set up phony public Wi-Fi connections (called spoofing), hoping a gullible mark will log in and expose valuable information. To prevent this, avoid using public Wi-Fi connections, especially unsecured ones, when you can. If you must use a public wireless network, install a VPN (virtual private network) on your device. This will prevent data interception by routing your information through an encrypted channel.

## Know The Device
Remote storage devices can be infected with malware. A well-known ruse among cybercriminals is to leave flash drives in places where they will be discovered and potentially plugged in. At this point, the damage begins (think back to malware). Always be wary of found devices and never plug an unknown device into your personal or work systems.

## Be a Fan of the Scan
If you frequently use removable media on your computer, you should enable your antivirus software to scan any external devices introduced to the system. Some USBs have an autorun feature, which initiates action as soon as the drive is inserted. Turn this feature off so scans can be safely performed before any files from the drive open.

## SEPARATE BUSINESS AND PERSONAL
Exposing your data is bad enough. But what if the compromised device contains personal and work information? That lost device could put your whole company at risk. A good rule is to keep your work and home devices completely separate. If a device containing your work product or confidential company information goes missing, alert your supervisor immediately.

## Avoid the Bluetooth Blues
Yes, even your Bluetooth wireless technology can get hacked. Many devices come with the Bluetooth feature that is automatically discoverable, which means other devices recognize it when it’s close by. But that isn’t limited to your devices—anyone near you can see your discoverable Bluetooth gadgets on their device. Disable this feature and only enable it when you’re actively using Bluetooth to pair the device. Then switch it back to undiscoverable once you’re finished.

## Dodge Deceptive Downloads
Before you download applications or games to any device, make sure you know what personal information you’re offering. Don't download it if the app isn’t forthcoming about how it will interact with your device and what permissions you agree to. If you’re unsure about the safety of a download, research its security and reliability before allowing it on your device.

## If You Don’t Need It, Delete It
Both portable devices and removable media have tremendous storage capabilities, but that doesn’t mean you need to max it out. If you no longer need a file or application on your device, delete it (and make sure it’s permanently deleted, not just hanging out in the trash where someone could quickly recover it). You can always keep backups at home. Devices that go with you should store as little as possible because of the increased risk of loss or theft.
